Zimbabwe clinched their maiden T20I series win over a higher-ranked side when they beat Bangladesh by 10 runs in the third game in Harare. The home side roused a full-house crowd by lifting themselves from 67 for 6 to finish on a competitive 156 for 8, before restricting Bangladesh to 146 for 8 in 20 overs.

Zimbabwe had only recently won the T20 World Cup qualifier. They beat West Indies in a one-off match in 2010, toppled Scotland 2-1 in 2021 and won a tri-nation tournament in Singapore also featuring Nepal in 2019. But this marks their first ever series win over a Full Member in bilateral T20I cricket.

With his side hanging by a thread at 76 for 6, Ryan Burl took 34 runs off Nasum Ahmed in the 15th over, equaling the second-most runs taken in a T20I over. He is no stranger to big overs against Bangladesh, having struck 30 runs off a Shakib Al Hasan in an over, three years ago.

In the end, Burn and Jongwe's 79 runs in 5.1 overs even found a place in the record books. No team in the history of T20Is has had their seventh wicket pair come in at such a low score (67 for 6) and made at least 50 runs at such a high strike-rate.

Bangladesh never recovered from the big hitting as they lost three early wickets, and then went through 49 balls without hitting a single boundary. But they also missed a few tricks, starting from the first over.

Mosaddek goes missing

Bangladesh missed an early trick when Mosaddek Hossain didn't repeat what he had done in the previous game. Opening the bowling, the part-timer Mosaddek took five wickets in an unbroken first spell, including two wickets in the first over. In this game however, Bangladesh started with Mustafizur Rahman, who conceded a four off the first ball.

Mahedi Hasan and Mosaddek then went on to concede 8 and 15 off the next two overs, including two fours and a six. Mosaddek perhaps saw his five-for as a one-off, but it wouldn't have been a huge loss to start the innings with the offspinner. Luckily, Nasum got Bangladesh the early breakthrough in the fourth over, when he had Regis Chakabva caught trying to clear the cover fielder.

Zimbabwe succumb to the Ms

Mahedi's double-strike in the sixth over gave the visitors further control. He removed both Wessly Madhevere and Sikandar Raza off consecutive deliveries. Raza, the in-form batter with two 60-plus scores in the previous games, top-edged a sweep, after Mahedi had yorked Madhevere.

Mosaddek and Mahmudullah then removed Sean Williams and Craig Ervine in consecutive overs. Williams struck one down deep midwicket's throat after making just two runs, while captain Ervine was stumped off Mahmudullah even though wicketkeeper Anamul Haque fumbled the ball initially. Milton Shumba was Zimbabwe's sixth wicket when he was caught behind off Mustafizur, this time however Anamul taking a stunning catch.